---
title: "2017 10 15"
date: 2017-10-15T05:55:59-07:00
draft: true
---
# About Arch Linux

In the Linux World (disclaimer - "the Linux World" is not an actual place) we often refer to a particular version of Linux as a distribution AKA - a distro. (Why distro? I think because we think it sounds "cool" would be my best guess. I mean I think the term "Linux distro" sounds cool. Like discotheque! Kinda. Moving on.)

My current Linux distro of choice is Arch Linux. Why?
Two reasons: KISS and documentation.

### KISS?

KISS is an acronym (IT itself being a culture defined as and by acronyms) which means: "keep it simple stupid".

KISS is a design methodology which puts simplicity above easy of use for the end user. This is not for everyone but for the people at Arch Linux (and for me) we appreciate this in an OS. Arch Linux will attempt to do little or no setup/configuration for you. For example, after finishing the basic Arch Linux install, there is no GUI (no graphical user interface) - only the command prompt. A text only system in 2017.

Let me say this again: This is what I love about Arch Linux!

"You like not having a GUI?", the peanut gallery heckles.

No, I like that I have to install and configure it myself for it to work and here is why.

The issue for me with many OSes, specifically with commercial OSes, is they make it possible to use a computer without knowing much about computers. Let me say that again.  THEY MAKE THE COMPUTER EASY TO USE WITHOUT UNDERSTANDING IT!

Sounds great right? How is that hurting anyone? Doesn't that mean the OS helps most people (as most people are not computer experts)? So what is the fuss? Why is this nerd here (me - Luke) complaining about this?

Because there is a catch to have the design goal: "easy to use for non-experts with computers". The catch is that this ease of use stops existing for the expert user. Easy to use for a novice often means hard to use for an expert.

Try this analogy. You don't see many professional ice skaters with double bladed skates or professional bicyclists with training wheels on their bikes do you? But don't those make it easier for a novice to use them? This metaphor I think aptly expresses how easy to use for a novice may often mean near uselessness for an expert.

As an expert with computers, I often find complications hiding in the oddest of places in a commercial OS. Complications in the form of binary log files, settings stored in proprietary databases, intentional security holes added (via an update no less!) at the request of government agencies (yes - this really happened).

To me, these are all things which make a computer harder to use. Viruses ruin my day and security holes are what help viruses spread. One should not add a security hole because the NSA batted their eyes at or (worse) threatened you. Binary logs and settings stored in proprietary databases are harder to read and check using simply tools like scripting. All of these "features" make the system harder for me to use and, yet, for the "average" computer user these trade offs are something they pay hard earned money for.

The KISS principle means that no one is trying to force a certain way of doing things on the system. There are no preconceptions about "the right" way to configure something because no one tries pre-configure anything. KISS means I get a stock configuration and I, the end user, must know what the correct/secure settings are for me.

Know thyself. Know thy computer. Not such horrible requests now are they? They should be requirements (or at least goals) of all sysadmins in my opinion.

"Okay, but what about you not a having a GUI after the basic install?", is the refrain of the peanut gallery.

Actually, that is the perfect segway!

## Documentation!

Documentation is the other thing Arch Linux gets so right!
